---
layout: post
title: STM32Cube Library's
---

ST distributes a Hal Driver called STM32Cube.  
I used this driver also in my projects.  
To use it with `meson build` we just have to make a small change and add some path's.

### inspect Library

first I downloaded the [STM32Cube-F3](http://www.st.com/en/embedded-software/stm32cubef3.html) for my STM32F3Discovery project.

```
├── Documentation
|   ├──...
├── Drivers                   # Folder of interest
|   ├──BSP                    # Abstraction for example projects
|   ├──CMSIS                  # cmsis and core defintions
|   ├──STM32F3xx_HAL_Driver   # hal driver itself
├── _htmlresc
|   ├──...
├── Middlewares
|   ├──...
├── Projects
|   ├──...
├── Utilities
|   ├──...
├── package.xml
├── Release_Notes.html
```

We see here the folder structure of the STM32Cube-F3 Library (V1.9.0)  
The interesting part is in the `Drivers` folder.
In there we have the `CMSIS` Folder and the `STM32F3xx_HAL_Driver`

`CMSIS`
```
├── Device
|   ├── ST
|       ├── STM32F3xx
|           ├── Include           # header files of specific devices
|           ├── Source             
|               ├── Templates
|                   ├── gcc       # startup files
|            Release_Notes.html
├── Documentation
├── DSP_Lib
├── Include
├── Lib
├── RTOS
```
In the CMSIS Folder are files which defines the Cortex-M Core.  
In the `CMSIS/Device/ST/STM32F3xx/Source/Template/gcc` we find the startup files from ST.  
All startup files in my repo are adjusted copy's from here.  
We have to include all the include folders and all C files in the Source directory for a minimal compilation.  
If you do not use the DSP Library or an RTOS you don't have to link these folders.


`STM32F3xx_HAL_Driver`
```
├── Include      # hal driver header files
|   ├── Legacy   # hal driver header files
├── Source       # hal driver source files
```

As you might expect. Here is the hal driver.  
In the Source and Include folder we have some template files. We don't have to compile these of course.  
But there is one file : `Include/stm32f3xx_hal_conf_template.h`  
This file specifies which hal drivers are getting loaded and configures some compiler flags if they are not defined by the user.

I copied the `Include/stm32f3xx_hal_conf_template.h` template to the `Drivers` folder and renamed it to `stm32f3xx_hal_conf.h`.  
With this change other files from the HAL-Driver will find this configuration file.  
In its initial state it enables all libraries. Thats totally okay. We use the linker to get rid of unused code later!
And because `meson build` together with `ninja` is very efficient, it will only compile it once and will never unnecessarily recompile it again.

### meson.build

I also placed an `meson.build` file in the root folder of this library.  
Later we can call the library with just one line in the `meson.build` script and it will load all necessary stuff!

In the `STM32Cube-F3-meson/meson.build` file I defined two variables

```
stm32cube_incdirs = []
stm32cube_srcs    = []
```

we will use this arguments later in the root meson.build file to create our executable with this hal-driver.

In `stm32cube_incdirs` we save all folders which contain header files  
In `stm32cube_srcs` and here of course all source files.

Because its really annoying to get every C-File path I wrote a [python script](https://github.com/hwengineer/STM32Cube-F3-meson/blob/master/list_all_c_files.py) to search all c file.

At the beginning of the [meson.build](https://github.com/hwengineer/STM32Cube-F3-meson/blob/master/meson.build) i also defined to flags which are used by the hal-driver
```
c_args += '-DUSE_HAL_DRIVER'
c_args += '-DUSE_LEGACY'
```

thats all it needs.

## usage

In the project root [meson.build](https://github.com/hwengineer/STM32F3Discovery-meson-example/blob/master/meson.build) we just have to call the library
```
# add STM library
subdir('STM32Cube-F3-meson')
```

and use the path variables in the executable command

```
main = executable(
            'main.elf',
            [srcs, <em>stm32cube_srcs<em>, 'main.c', startupfile] ,
            c_args              : [c_args ],
            link_args           : [link_args, '-Wl,--gc-sections'],
            dependencies        : link_deps,
            include_directories : [incdirs, stm32cube_incdirs] )
```
