---
layout: post
title: My first post
---

As the title says. This is my first post on github.

I was motivated by a team member from [meson build](http://mesonbuild.com/) to write some of my findings to a blog post.
Thats when I decided to not only make one blog post but also use [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) to distribute it.

## Motivation

I created this github account for distribute various (working) example projects for my precious STM32 microcontrollers.

### STM32 you say?

of course there are various example projects for STM32 microcontrollers somewhere around the internet.
But I was not satisfied with those solutions.

Some time ago I made my STM32 projects with Eclipse and the famous ARM Eclipsle Plugin.

I wanted to reopen one of those projects 2 months ago. And yes, of course it didn't worked well.
Eclipse mode some version jumps in the meantime and also the plugin.

I was very annoyed! And decided to search for a better solution

### Alternatives
What where my alternatives?
What could be better?

What do I want?

-   I want a simple solution
-   I want to understand whats happening
-   I don't want to hide to much of the complexity

The alternatives would be a handwritten makefile project or a cmake project.
I never got warm with cmake.
But I also didn't want to make a makefile project with manually control indention
errors and add slashes for linebreaking etc.
Also in my opinion I felt it not very intuitive to read a makefile.

I save a presentation of the [meson build](http://mesonbuild.com/) from a convention and was postively surprised. It looked easy and the build files intuitive to read.

I decided to give meson a try and began to make a first example project...
